The books are running about 4,000 a day, and at the moment we're quite ahead on the process of moving books in.
We're not allowed to take photographs, unfortunately.
That's a rule from the department, not from our ruling.
So what we'll do is we'll go over to the other side of the piano so you get an idea of the view, and I can explain more about how the building is.
It's beautiful.
And how long has this been in construction?
The foundation stone was laid in 1982, and construction project began around about that time.
This was a railway goods yard, and there's 12 acres of land on this side, and it came up for purchase, probably one of the few sites in central London this large that would actually come up for purchase at the time, so the Department of National Heritage, or the Office of Arts and Libraries,
whatever it was at that time, purchased this land and construction started on the site.
There were various restrictions about what we could and what couldn't be done about it.
The idea of a library goes back, perhaps even to the 1950s, when they wanted to extend at the front of the British Museum building down in Bloomsbury, further out across from the front of the museum, down towards Holborn.
and at the time those plans were rejected.
So the architect, Professor Colin St.
John Wilson, has been working on the initial designs for that part of the project back in the 50s.
But I bring you back to here because you just get this wonderful view.
As you look at the St.
Cancras station just over here and our building, you get to that point where the buildings merge and the bricks
For our building, the clay for the bricks came from the same quarry as the clay for the bricks that were on St.
Pancras Station.
And we've used some 10 million hand-made bricks in the construction of this building, is my card by the way.
Thank you.
And the slate, they have now been cleaning up on St.
Pancras Station.
And they've got green slate and we've got grey, and they're supposed to be the same colour.
They've come from Wales, and one of the things in the construction is that we've used all the grey flakes in the quarry, so when they've come to redo, we've taken it all out.
But as the building is, as we're looking at it now, on this left-hand side here is where the bookshop is, the exhibition gallery,
the Manuscripts Reading Room and Rare Books Reading Room, and eventually here at the back there will be the Humanities Reading Room.
The slated area right in the middle here is the entrance hall area, and then as you come across to this side, where the green shutters are, these are the Science Reading Room, and further back upon the complete ahead of the Oriental Reading Room,
and we come to the very front of the building, in here, and where the round hole is, as it were, and that part of the structure there, that is the auditorium where we'll finish up this afternoon.
And so where will you be storing all the books and manuscripts?
Right, well, we're actually standing on top of an eight-story building.
Okay, all right.
Yes, they're four basements, and they're double pint.
And they go from about where the fence line is, over here,
to roughly where the top of the slates are.
And the wedge shape of the site is also the shape of the basement.
Will we be able to see any of this?
We can't get into the basements, unfortunately.
What they had to do was they had to use a new method for construction at the time called top-down construction.
If you can imagine digging a hole large enough
to go down deep enough.
What would have happened is that the package station in these flats here wouldn't have fallen into the holes.
So they laid and excavated under it and then supported.
Then excavated, supported, excavated, supported, right the way down.
That's why it took 15 years, I would say.
And round the outside of the site, because of the rising water table in London, they've actually put a homeable membrane as well.
How are we protecting the books and manuscripts from this rising water table?
Through the membrane, etc., the solidness of the walls, the controlled environment down there.
We're going to aim to increase the life of a book in this building by about four times as much as we can currently.
From what to what?
I think we're going up to about 300 years.
Currently, if you're in the round reading room area, the stacks there, there's no control over the temperature as such, and so in the winter it's very, very cold, in the winter it's very, very hot, and the station running down the walls, etc.
So you mean four times without any intervention on the book itself, without any conservation procedures?
The basements are split into various compartments down there, so that if, in the case of a fire,
The fire doors come down, and they're strong enough to hold off a fire for two hours.
And the sprinkler system, there's actually a sprinkler system in the building.
They looked at using gas and things like that.
So it's water.
Having people in there as well.
Water system.
But that will actually only come on in that particular compartment, so that particular area.
Kind of like a ship almost.
Yeah.
Watertight compartments in a ship.
But for the system to actually come on,
two adjacent smoke alarms trigger off.
So one will go off, and all the circuits will be changed.
So there's a redundant system in other words.
And then if an adjacent one comes on, then the doors come down, etc.
And that area becomes where it is.
We have freezers in the building, in the basement areas, so that we can make...
If there were all the damage, put them in.
You freeze the books immediately and then you can conserve them, right?
When there was the fire at the library in Norwich, the large supermarket such as Safeways and Sainsbury's and people like that gave freezer space so they could get their books in and get them... Did you know that happened?
I didn't.
When was that fire?
Well, we were in 1997, 1995.
How bad did you lose a lot of books?
They lost a lot of books, yes.
They lost lots of things from that time.
That's right.
Isn't that great?
What's under here?
Under here is a statue of Newton, based on Blake's design, which has been designed by Eduardo Palazzi.
Oh, really?
Mark, my book is two years away.
At some point, will I be able to acquire some official photographs of this facility to use in this book?
I would have thought so, yes.
I can do that probably through Jane, I would imagine.
Through Jane and the preface.
Is the statue in fact under there right now?
It's under there, she's in place.
Okay, great.
It's going to be unveiled at possibly opening ceremonies, etc.
When will there be?
We're opening reading room services on the 24th of November this year.
We might come, we never know.
There will be a formal opening to the building, of course, which that is being done, hopefully, by Her Majesty, by the Queen, or whoever the monarch will be at the time, shall we say.
So that's all there now.
It's a very exciting time in the library, now we've started to move the books in.
Bearing in mind that as the books are being moved in, they are still part of a working collection.
So if a reader requests a book, they will have to go back from here.
So it's sort of like that kind of, this is the current reading room and this is this building.
It's almost like exchanging and as we get more and more books, there'll be the changeover.
So this is currently like a storehouse.
And then it will become a reading room.
So once we've got enough books in this part of the library, then to go to reading room services.
So are the books coming in quite systematically then by shelving?
So are they starting low and moving up?
They've actually started, I think it's basically before.
I've been down there once, and after seeing for such a long time all this shelving empty, to start to see books on the shelving is very, very exciting.
And in the basement there's various types of shelving.
There's shelving where the material can be placed flat and be pulled out, and there's multiple shelving, there's shelving for microfiche, there's static shelving, there's various types of shelving for there.
Do you have any comparison with the Bibliotech National, with the type of library that you've opened?
Jane may know more about that.
I'm not particularly au fait with what's been going on at the Bibliotech National.
The main entrance for our users will be through the gates here, through the portico here.
People ask, why have we got this huge area here?
Part of the restrictions were that in the London Borough of Camden, which is where the building is placed, there aren't that many open areas for members of the public, park areas and things like that.
So this has to be an open space, and this is actually four members of the public.
Any member of the public can come in here.
and use the piazza, because they're going to have access to people who have access to the bookshop, have access to exhibition galleries, the restaurant area, etc.
So, you know, it's a public building.
So there's going to be lots going on in and around this area.
But the same rules for readers apply, however.
Readers' passes will be issued on a need-to-use basis.
We're bringing together two different schools of thought.
In the science reading rooms currently,
You just sign the visitor's book when you arrive, and you go in and use the reading room.
In humanities areas, you have to have a reader's path.
So we're bringing that together.
And what you'll end up with is a path to the library, as opposed to, say, a path to a particular area within the library.
So, for example, some of our users, perhaps in the patent community, who need to search patents and scientific literature, may need a journal that is held in humanities collections,
example being something like Toy Trader Journal, can, rather than now, currently can go all the way over to the humanities, get a pass, et cetera, in this building they'll be able to read all that material at the same desk.
You'd bring this to them.
You'd bring it to them.
So it's bringing together two different ideas.
And how do they streamline the retrieval system?
I mean, if I ask for a book that I'm reading, what's the projected time from the amount of time I ask?
The objective time at the moment is 80% of book requests within 20 minutes.
And that's here?
Yes.
Currently, you can order a book from a building in south London, and it's a day, two days.
We'll see a little bit of the system, what is going on.
We'll go into the building.
I've told them so that they know.
There's actually, as a word of warning, there is an event happening in the south, in the entrance.
You've come on a good day, because...
they are knocking down the partition wall between the first phase and the completion phase.
And so it'll be the first time that, as you walk, hopefully, I don't know how far they've got, I've not been in, you'll be able to see the King's Library.
Oh, really?
Oh, yeah.
That's happening this afternoon.
And it's also the architect's 75th birthday.
So this is quite a rather important day, isn't it?
He's been working on this for the past 15 years.
He's been working on the idea of construction of a national library for the past 30 years.
So he's been involved in the project from there.
And he's invited lots of friends around.
Apparently Pilotsy might be here this afternoon as well.
So we're going to be sort of sculpting around all that's going on.
That's exciting, that's exciting.
But it'd be quite interesting when we get into the entrance hall to see how far.
They're calling it the part, the unification.
What kind of stone is this here, the light?
Purbeck and Portland stone out here.
And throughout there's various lights, all these roundels on the front.
And this area here, the curved area is the bookshop that we're looking at now.
The building is nice.
It's particularly beautiful.
I bet.
Particularly beautiful.
How long have you worked here?
I've worked in the library since 1987, so I'm coming up with my 10-year sentence.
Oh, good.
That's a pretty nice place.
So you work actually over at the... I work at the back of this building.
Oh, I see.
At the development office.
We're in port-a-cabins at the back, which are very nice.
It's a nice office I've worked in since I've been in the library.
Very nice.
Wonderful.
So in here, the architecture continues to be the answer of the design.
It's to encourage people when they get to the front door, they think they can't go into the last building.
As far as if they get to the door, then that continues through.
It actually changes when you get up the steps over there.
Very nice.
And it works.
This is magnificent.
When we were out from the piazza, this is your inflated area.
From here, you can get to most areas.
There's a place here where when you need to get a part to use the reading room to come straight from the front door.
Inflammation is just in front of the room.
If you need to get a part, etc, etc.
Go to the room to the room to the room to the admission office.
Go downstairs to the cloakroom area.
We can hang some 800 coats down there.
The exhibition galleries are just through to the doors here and the bookshop.
The surfaces in here, all the white which you see is white Italian travertine marble.
and all the woodwork that you see is white American oak came from the state because there wasn't enough in this country to provide the needs of the building come from renewable sources the only thing I do know is that the wood they've used in the French building apparently haven't come from renewable sources but that's one of the things I have been told but all our wood has come from renewable sources and when you go around have a look at the woodwork and you'll see there's no notch marks in any of the wood at all part of the design
specifications, there's to be no notch marks.
Here's the subject of the last hand built building.
You'll just notice right the way round.
So where the plastic is at the moment, behind there is the King's Library.
And the reason the plastic is coming down, well I presume some things will be coming down later, that will reveal the six-storey glass tower of the King's Library.
I can't wait to see that.
And the King's Library is the Library of George III, given to George IV.
It's a working library, it's a working collection within the library.
The spines of the books are going to be facing outwards throughout the tower.
and the shelving is movable, so you pull the shelves and the books slide back and there's a walkway around the outside, a member of staff can retrieve the books from within the glass tower.
Will the tower only be facing one direction?
It's facing all four directions.
Oh, that's wonderful.
That's like the Beinecke to a small degree.
What's that?
A lot.
And the main... just up there.
So that's going to be quite exciting, because it's going to be one of the things that marks us out as a working library, as opposed to being a museum to the book.
That's not what we are.
We are the working library of the United Kingdom.
So on the large wall here, coming down between the two lines is going to be a tapestry.
And that is seven metres by seven metres.
And it's based on a painting by Tiptine.
called If Not, Not.
And it represents various themes of 20th century life.
In one corner there's outfits, there's various literary figures, and it's supposed to be like a description of a train journey through the countryside.
It's one of those pictures that people either love or they hate.
I don't mind it, I think it's quite attractive.
But to actually now see the photographs of the pastries being woven,
It's still being made.
There's only one loom large enough in this country, the tapestry, and it's being woven in Edinburgh.
and we had a grant for that from the Art Council Luxury Fund.
Hi James, I'm Nick Breswain, my wife Connie.
This has been a terrific introduction for me.
That's great.
We've just got to the Passage Street.
I have to tell you, I've just had that part of the reason I'm late is that my taxi driver turns out his mum lives in Oxford Street and has lived in this part of London for 90 years.
90.
And I'm trying to get a local history project together where we have the kids from the region to come and record memories of the place.
And he's just told me that he's going to go and ask his mum to get photographs of what it looked like.
He remembers cows and sheep
and horses on this site, because they used to do all the distribution of food during the war from this site, by horse and car, because there's no fuel.
Anyway, so there is a different reason.
Just so you know, I'm taping this, okay?
Everything will be held within it.
There's no surprise.
That's fine.
Well, I do apologize to them.
Oh, come on.
I'm thrilled that you're able to see us, frankly, at such short notice.
Well, you will see also.
You arrived at the moment.
Has Mark explained to you?
Hi.
Hello.
Good to see you.
This is a great occasion, isn't it?
Well,
No, it is.
No, come on, don't qualify it.
And that's been conceived as an integral part of the construction of the building.
It's not only there to look pretty, it's helped with the acoustics in the entrance hall as well.
So that's one of the works of art.
And the four busts are of whom?
The four of the founding donors of the collection.
In fact, I thought that's for them.
Have you explained that the tapestry is just about to be cut off the loom?
It is.
It's being made in Scotland.
Very, very close.
This is so beautiful.
Congratulations.
It should be a great
Pleasure to work here, I can imagine.
Oh, I think we're all really looking forward to it.
It's going to be terrific.
I plan for the afternoon.
I think we do the exhibition gallery.
I think we can get through, can't we?
Yes, I think we'll just... We'll have to come back out this way.
We'll have to come out to the top there.
Maybe I'll sit around.
We'll go to Redwood.
Can we walk around the back maybe?
We'll cross us through and finish the auditorium.
We're thrilled to really... Do you have a time where you need to... No, we're giving the whole day to this.
Whatever your time is, we're fine.
So we'll go through into the exhibition gallery.
At some point, will we be able to get some photographs
You know, for you, they don't have to be by us.
Yes, no, but we do have photographs, yes, of all the buildings.
And this is... You can't get into it, but we have got a large bookshop which faces out onto the front and which will be a mixture of our own publishing and others.
It's meant to work as a fully-fledged, proper bookshop which can support both the readers but also our general visitors.
So that's not a gift shop, per se.
It'll also be a professional bookshop.
We have a bookshop on our site already, and I'm very keen that it remains a bookshop primarily because that reflects the library's mission and role.
And there will be some low-priced things that go with it, and we ourselves produce greetings cards based on the collection of gift books, of which I can see Mark holding one, which we produce for general audiences.
And of course things like our CD-ons, because we produce
technology which is a whole other area quite literally is the shop window for the library as well which is why it's important
curving windows that you can just about see, which will be, as it were, the shop window for the library as well as a book selling space.
Is there a virtual element to the library in terms of the virtual library, the library of the future, the digital library?
We have, in various places, terminals where there can be either public or reader access.
to either the catalogs or to individual items within.
We'll have a look, you'll see in the gallery, it's one of our most exciting developments, there's something called Turning the Pages.
We learned about that.
You have something you can show us on that?
Not yet.
It isn't set up here, there's only a prototype, but it's a development that we've
It sounds very exciting.
We were talking about it in terms of the Lindisfarne Gospels, apparently.
That's the one that... Well, the ones we've done so far are the Leonardo da Vinci sketchbook and the Diamond Future.
And what we're exploring is how you can get back as close as you can to that sense of actually touching and turning the pages that using the technology can.
The diamond suits we particularly were very pleased about because it was a scroll, and we found this way that you can actually, with a touchscreen version, as it were, unfold the scroll.
Apparently it's still too sophisticated to put together as a CB1.
It's a question of memory compression storage and still wanting the kind of quality.
But yes, ultimately, that's the idea.
Oh, we'll get there.
Yeah, you'll get there.
But one version that will be here in the galleries, which was where our thinking started, because when we put books on display, obviously all you see is one open.
And that's a frustration for any visitor.
And the idea originated with allowing you to see beyond that.
So you might see all the
Gospel pages and the carpet pages of Linda Swan Gospel.
I think Alice said that you'll be doing about 24 pages, I guess, originally, not the whole book.
Linda Swan will do about 30 pages.
With the Swartz Hours, we've done already about 30 pages, and we'll do more.
With the Leonardo sketchbook, again, we'll take samples.
But the idea is that we'll develop scholarly programs beyond that, so that you can actually be able to see the whole of them.
It's more than entertainment.
Oh, it's not.
I hope it is entertaining.
If it's just selective, then it certainly can't have that much of a scholarly application of existence.
Part of it is trying to... What we try to do in the galleries and for the public is to just open the door a little bit to the collections and to direct people to how they can find out more about then what happens, what goes on.
Great.
So no, it's always, I hope, educational as well as entertaining.
Will there be a unit here also for scanning books?
I mean, will that be incorporated in this?
We won't scan in this area, no.
Or we won't allow people to scan here.
We're looking at how we scan all the reading ones.
We run, obviously, at the moment, with conventional terms, we produce photocopies or photographs for readers of material they want to look at.
We have to be a little cautious about how we handle scanning and how we handle handheld scanning.
We are going to have a unit up there.
I don't mean for the general public, by the way.
I mean in terms of your own professional scanning your own material.
Yes, of course.
We have huge already microforming units and they will slowly convert as technology allows it to development of scanning and full text capture.
We have a project where we're looking for commercial partners to work with us to help us develop the infrastructure to support that, because, of course, it's not so much just the scanning, but it's the ability to store, index, and then get access to the material.
These are all the issues I'm dealing with in this book, which is fascinating.
It's working through those issues.
It is a library of the future.
I hope so.
It really is.
that is full of the past, that is absolutely something facing on the future.
Mark, go ahead.
It's a slumbering giant, isn't it?
There's no natural light coming in.
This is like the end of the fall into the Exhibition of Gallows, which we have three.
If we go along with the end, we'll look down into the largest of the three.
If this area is planned, this is open somewhere where we can either serve guides or small items about the collections, or if we can admission to some of our temporary exhibitions, then we'll send tickets here.
There's a backlit post with that, and they've put large post with that.
And there'll be a post on this line here which might show a major item or a recent acquisition or a particular item if it's an anniversary or something that we want to bring out for the short term.
This is striking the black in the eye.
The surface is here, which I've put in stone on the floor.
And this is an African wood, black stained Iroko, which has a very low acidic level.
So all the wood that you see as well, sometimes I think it's a metal.
I was just feeling it, and I was unsure if it was wood, to tell you the truth.
That's actually right.
The kind of building you want to feel, as you walk around, do you see certain areas and you just want to... Will these exhibition areas basically be the ones that are now in the main reading and the...
approach and concept and perhaps as we go into each mark do you mind if i explain a little bit about what we're going to do in each um this one is the is going to combine its its functions it's the largest of the three galleries as you see its double height and it will have each summer a major temporary show um our first show is actually going to be a joint exhibition with the library of congress which which we call at the moment is a working title
special relationship and it's about the relationship and migration backwards and forwards between our two countries and how they've influenced and informed each other.
As cultures or as libraries?
As cultures, primarily, but of course the libraries are the underlying source of all that information and that's the message that's there.
So it will deal with cultural, political, social,
legal issues and the way in which our two nations have related.
But underneath it all is of course the message that it is only in libraries that you can keep a record of that range of historical information.
And when are you planning to mount this exhibition?
That exhibition will be in 1999.
That's when my book comes out.
Who's curating it?
Do you know?
Yes, I do, because I'm organizing the curatorial team.
We have curators.
We have quite large teams of curators at the moment on both sides of the Atlantic working together.
And we've now had...
three, I think, exchange visits back between each other as we refine the ideas.
Who's working at the LC?
Do you know what I'm going down to?
The LC, well, the coordination is still, I think, through their exhibitions team, and Winston-Cab would be the person to start with.
But there are about six key curators from each of their departments.
It'd be nice for me to talk to both sides on that, and just to prove that there would be some
interesting insights just about what they're trying to demonstrate.
Well, we've developed on this side a series of themes, and we've worked through with them to agree those.
We went back to the States, four of us, in September to refine the themes, and since then we've been looking at a kind of spine for the exhibition, which is a timeline which identifies key events that we want to draw.
Political or?
They may be political, they may be social, they may be cultural.
We've not seen... Tell me the name of the exhibition again.
The exhibition we're calling is a working title, A Special Relationship.
A Special Relationship.
There'll probably be a colon there, I'm sure.
Well, I'm not even sure whether that'll be the title, because, you know, it's all in inverted commas.
L-C-B-L.
My book is coming out in 1999.
It would be a graphic combination.
That would be perfect to write.
The 2000th century exhibition for example is one on a literary theme, it tends to be called a thousand years of English literature, or literature in English, or again working titles.
The exhibition in 2001, the key exhibition is on the Nobel Prizes, which are the prizes when you're working with the Nobel Foundation.
The one out of us in 2002 is our medieval scene.
And we're trying to, in presenting our exhibition, explore all the areas of the collection.
But then in between, there's a series of semi-paramount scenes that reflect areas of the collection and which relate, when we come to it, to what we're doing in the other two scenarios.
So, for example, the first five themes that we open are, as we walk down, children's books, the story of writing, something on science and technology, but I've forgotten if it's a new title, images of the theme, and... That's okay.
I'm curious... There are a series of themes, the art of the book.
The Beowulfs, would that be here?
The Beowulfs will actually be up in the Treasurer's Gallery.
So that will be the Treasurer's Gallery.
The Treasurer's Gallery will be taught long and hard of about over eight years.
What do you do with a collection that's so diverse, where there are so many completely unrelated items, where there are such hard relationships with individuals?
And the treasure's galleries and those is our only way really of handling it, where there are about 40 or 50 major items which will be always on display.
And then around those will be groups of items from the collection which will explore some very broad, very, very broad streams of literature and media.
But when you talk... I'm sorry, go ahead, not finished.
No, no, no, that's fine.
I'm sorry.
Certainly...
When you're saying completely unrelated themes... The individual items, for example, there is no intellectual relationship beyond their place in the library that we can find for, say, Magma Carter and the Winsfang Gospels and the Diamond Sutra.
The Diamond Sutra is not British.
What I was thinking, the treasure room probably would be
related by the fact that they were at least British, right?
No, no, no, because we are not, although we're the nationalized of Britain, our collections are international, and always have been, right from the beginning.
The earliest foundational collections were not just British.
That's right.
So you can understand the difficulty then of making coherent
gallery which is showing off the collection so we just have decided to give a little bit of shape to the scenes by giving a context to the individuality so here we begin I think with the classical and antique world and they move into the medieval period
which allows us to show the illuminated manuscripts.
We move into the Renaissance and the Golden Age, which allows us to talk about Shakespeare and the introduction of printing and some of the literary works, which carries on into the literary work into the 19th and 20th century.
Magna Carta is here.
Music is here.
And so we've constructed a, I hope, comprehensible sequence of things happening.
But I couldn't pretend to say that there was a coherence, except that they were all part of our collection.
Is it understood that this is basically a permanent exhibition?
Yes.
These won't be revolving items, so to speak.
There were 40 or 50 which were not moved, for a variety of reasons.
I mean, some, by terms of the quest, but mostly because people will expect to see Magrakasha, they'll expect to see them in the spine gospels whenever they can.
Other material will change, and it gives us an opportunity to show, and we have several thousand illuminated manuscripts, and so therefore we wouldn't want to show all the time just the sort of 20 or so that we could show in this space.
And you have maybe...
200, 300 that are just as beautiful as the last one.
Absolutely.
I mean, it sounds rather greedy, but that is the case.
So this will allow for everyone to keep the permanent core and then build around it.
But also, this is where we'll show turning the pages.
There's a little room off here.
And you can go in and have a look at digital images of items that we've seen and turn the pages.
We decided not to put the technology in the gallery.
The only possible exception to that will be sound, where we have the National Sound Collections, you know.
And we feel that we need to somehow present a sound treasure.
That'll be in here.
And we're looking now at how we might introduce that into this gallery without
presenting a contrast between the other things that are going on.
We'll perhaps have a word about what's happening down below because we have something different.
All the cases are fiber optic lit and can be individually conditioned so that you can actually maintain items in the conditions that their fabric requires, so if there is ivory or silver or other material that requires different conditioning within a case we can achieve it.
and it's a cold fibrillate.
We're introducing the lights, the lights will be higher than this, but most of the light will come from within the cases.
But in addition, we're producing double-panelled engraved glass directional silage.
So here is the sample.
There will be a double-spin
engraved glass panels with light flooding up in between, uplift, so that the lighting will actually show you where the broad directions are.
You're moving from the classical world to the medical world.
And it'll give you that.
But if they themselves will be, we hope, rather beautiful, and in a sense works of art, but they have a very practical purpose, is that they'll bring more light into the space.
Because we don't, although these are clearly items to revere, we don't want people to be put off.
And if you walk into a dark room, quite a lot of others may feel intimidated.
So we don't want people to be intimidated.
We want to keep drawing them in and to provide opportunities for them to move on.
My wife asked Mark a question a little bit earlier, and I think that you kind of anticipated it in a way where you suggested that this is an international library.
And I wonder,
Could you contrast the new British Library, say, with the new French National Library?
Or is that going, reaching too far?
Well, the French National Library does also have international collections, but probably not to the extent that we have.
Their concentration has been on French material.
So when I say that, they have wonderful collections that are international in scope, certainly early collections.
But certainly the later collections are not, I would say, as international as ours are, so I wouldn't particularly want to make that kind of comparison.
No.
I'm just wondering in terms of a—I mean, it is coincidental that you both have brand new facilities opening at approximately the same time.
Would you say that there's a philosophical difference or a similarity between the two?
in terms of purpose?
I think overall there are many similarities.
I mean, we are each striving for that kind of universality that a national library seeks.
The difference, I mean, there's a fundamental difference in that they are attempting to provide what we would call a public library service, and that one whole element of their new reading room at Tolbiac
is for the public public library access.
We're using a lot of new technology to bring surrogate material for a general audience.
We don't aim to do that.
There's a public library system well developed in the UK.
Perhaps needing support now, but still very well developed in the UK.
But this remains a research facility.
Essentially a research facility.
But what we recognize that our ownership
of these major, major cultural items means that we owe, if you like, the taxpayer, the general public, the general interested person, as well as the researcher, the opportunity to have access.
Hence the galleries and a whole lot of educational and associated events, which we think are an important part of owning and caring for a national collection.
Well, it has to be, doesn't it, in this day and age?
And I hope everything else.
Yeah.
In a way, I'm less worried about bullets than sort of liquid and chewing gum, and the bullets are hopefully occasional.
They'll get them at the door, we hope.
The chewing gum, the chewing gum, and I mean, at least in our galleries at the moment, one of my exhibition centers' first inquiries was, can we have concealed locks?
Because in our cases in the British Museum,
They're perpetually, not perpetually, but really quite often finding that people are stuck.
Oh yeah, well it's quite malicious, isn't it?
So these are probably for the optic fiber, these little curly things?
Yeah, these things are the fiber optic.
B, when we put up the door closed in quite such serried ranks as they are now, that they can move anywhere along this process, which means that wherever we put an item, we can focus and turn the heads and turn the lights and get the cold light onto the object itself.
And of course, the beauty of having internal case lighting is that you don't get reflection from the glass.
I mean, as you can see now already, we're getting reflection from the lights above.
Internal lighting means that you have no reflection, you can look at the lighting itself.
So these lights won't be on then?
Well, we're changing the way these, we won't change them.
The lights will be here, but they'll be rather differently focused.
And so the concentration will be on the light here.
And that will diffuse any reflection you can get from other lighting.
And as I say, we're providing, through uplighting, at various points, extra ambient light.
which doesn't affect the light on the surface of the book because for preservation reasons, I keep that down to about 50 to 75 left, which I think is about four to five candles.
A lot of thought went into this.
Oh, yes.
Yes.
Well, I've personally been working on this for... I don't think I even want to share it.
Well, how long?
Well, I took on the job, well, part of my job which included exhibitions in, I think, about 80...
1987, and we really started working on this, the detail here then.
But some work had already been done, but we were specifying the cases from that stage on.
Wow.
So it is now 10 years.
Construction as a rule doesn't take that long, does it?
No.
We didn't expect it to take that long when we started.
When was this originally supposed to be operational?
The earliest date for this particular development on this site was I think probably 1991 was the first meeting date which then moved really quite quickly to 1993 and thereafter.
Can I just tell you briefly, just down below here is another gallery which is just an empty square so nothing to see but there we've introduced something completely different which we've never done before which is a kind of hands-on
display which is about the history of communication and the idea is that you walk into a space
which begins to tell you about the introduction of language and text and talks about scripts and moves into the Middle Ages.
We reconstruct, in fact, a woman scribe, Christine de Pisa.
Oh, she's famous.
Of course she's famous.
But she's a woman which is quite nice because everybody thinks a scribe is being nice and scriptural.
I have several books about her.
And Christine, we have a small model of where she worked.
But we also have her materials there so that people can actually touch and relate to what she was doing, what she was working with.
And then we introduced printing, we have reconstructed the 18th century wooden common press, which will be operating on it.
I can't wait.
When will this be opened?
April next year.
We'll come back next year.
We'll still be working on the book, so we'll be able to get this in.
And it ends up with a computer-based hypothesis.
This is lovely.
You actually see that.
Isn't that wonderful?
So tell me what we're looking at, Mark.
This is the King's Library.
If we go further over, you'll be able to see the four stories.
As I said earlier, the way it faces all four sides of the building.
Oh, this is beautiful.
And this is it.
You're excited, I can tell.
I've never seen it through a door before.
My favorite bit.
Can we get up?
Let's go to the next.
Because one of the flagging little effects is you put black marble down here.
And when you get a bath, you have the sense that this whole tower rises literally out from the basement.
Masses of storage.
It looks as though it goes up forever.
It's a bit like a... I can't wait to see this.
The shelving, what is the shelving?
The shelving is metal of some sort?
It's metal, yes.
It does actually, it moves.
All of the books here have to be retrievable to be looked at in the reading room.
So this is a functional, this is a totally functional... If we go through, I think there'll probably be some of this plastic we can nip through to the side.
I'm sorry Martha, I'll just capture a bit.
Well, they're having a reception now, sir, isn't it?
Well, it's Sandy Wilson, who is the author, at 75th birthday.
Uh-huh.
And it's the first... This is actually an auspicious day, right?
It's changed up here.
We're now through in a reader-only area between 3D Green and 8.
So if somebody will need a pass to get through here?
It's like using the tube gate.
But it's a reader's pass.
So when I applied for one of these five years ago, if I had one of these now, I could come in and read.
automated system are actually about three to four years ago, so your past may not be one of those.
No, I don't think it's current, actually.
No, but when it's reissued,
it will be able to open these gates, and so it will allow you through.
But if I don't have one of those, I can't come through.
You have to come to the Reader Admissions Office, which is down in the corner, and have it reissued for you.
But the general public can't come up here.
No, that's the dividing line.
The public can walk all the way around at this level and the lower level.
That, unfortunately, is the center of the book, which is a kind of place where we can give the public information about book-based events and things that are happening.
I'm looking at some general inquiry terminals there, where you can access the internet.
This is the centre of the book 10 from the Library of Congress.
John Cole.
John is an old friend of mine.
I gave a talk at the Library of Congress.
Oh my goodness me.
I did tell you about the choir, didn't I?
I told Marie, she didn't know Sandy was telling me.
Have you ever been to see the Thomas Fisher Airbook Roman?
I know Richard very well.
Richard was my host two weeks ago.
I gave a talk up there and I just found so dramatic and almost
It's magnificent, it really is.
You have to sort of see it with the King's Library volumes inside.
The reason I mention Thomas Fisher is this kind of suggests what they did up there, with the galleries that go around the outside, and the Beinecke somewhat like this.
Yes, the Beinecke is very similar.
This was much more Beinecke modeled, I think.
That's right, because this is a core.
Thomas Fisher goes around the outside.
This is wonderful.
And how many volumes in King's Library?
Must be 17,000 or whatever?
Something like that.
I should know the numbers.
Hello, Clyde.
And the beauty of the King's Library is that, you know, some people might argue that you should move it more or less precisely the way it was, but when it went into the British Library, it was never precisely the way it was when the King had it.
The whole point about the library is that it doesn't space.
That's right.
I'm sorry, Mark, did I take you in the sewer?
is this american wood really is this american well i'm very proud this beautiful wood i hope you don't feel yes i'm not sure whether it's definitely to be proud but it's also because it's a renewable resource in the states which it isn't in the uk and unlike with your technology now who have used unreadable hardware we felt quite strongly
It's quite correct, shall we say.
One of my favourite stories is about this, which shows the history of the brief.
The history of the brief for the building goes back to the late 1970s, at which time
We needed to specify a typing room, which was a quiet place where people who had typewriters could go and work.
Oh, that's funny.
So here is the typing room.
Nobody has typewriters anymore.
My belief is that that will be the place where people without computers go.
To be quiet.
So why did they keep it then?
Well, because the brief became fixed in about 1980.
And of course, if you think back, 1980, no internet.
CD-ROM was introduced in 1981.
Brief was fixed in order, the government said, for this contract to go through, you can't keep changing.
You can't fool with the brief.
So what do you do with computers and the internet then?
Well, every single... We've been able to upgrade the space.
So we have ports here.
So each...
Whether we will allow people to bring in computers and use their own computers to access the internet is a big question.
We haven't quite decided.
But in theory, there is an individual PowerPoint and ADP point.
for the linkage.
It's whether our local network can support us and quite how we manage it.
A little printer here too, probably.
Yes, we probably could.
That would be a question probably of noise and disturbance as well.
It's all a question of working through what's going to be most comfortable with people doing.
And we call this the, this is the reading room?
This is one of the main readings.
This will be ultimately the red book's reading room.
It will open a humanities reading room in the first phase.
Well, you're a lot of readers, aren't you?
We will get a lot of readers.
What we know, in fact, one of the worries is that we haven't got enough, you know, even criticized for not having enough space.
That's a question of funding, not of choice.
David said this morning that I talked to Dr. John Simmons yesterday.
I thought it was quite an interesting one.
And he gave us a chair.
I think we should ask you both to test drive the chair.
Okay, good.
To see what you think.
And I need a new chair, Karne, because I know where they got these.
These are all leather.
Oh, this is great.
Nice.
One of the tables actually wrote a book.
Excellent.
Made in Britain.
There's always in Britain, too.
They were specially designed for the time.
Do we call them British Library chairs, do you think?
Do you think they have a name?
I think we'll probably sell them now.
I hadn't thought about that.
You could sell them, you know.
I could sell them.
You bet.
I shall have to do it, obviously.
You should really put a little seal on the back, and it's guaranteed, you know, British Library.
And then all the famous names to start on it, so it's not just a British Library chair, but this is who shall we have.
Michael Holroyd.
This is Michael High's chair.
This is Margaret Gravel's chair.
Margaret Gravel's chair.
This is Hal Pinter's chair.
That's right.
This is Lodi Antonia Frazier's chair.
Exactly.
This is Lodi Lively's chair.
This is Phyllis James's chair.
Yeah, that will happen.
And that's the typing room over there.
Is that what we formally call it?
Well, it's been changed.
It was the type of room until recently.
I notice now it's called the study room, which I think is a very... It may carry a certain cachet, you know.
There may be people who want to be in there because it is isolated.
You might find that.
Well, the way the current reading rooms work is that there is a whole unwritten process of laws.
Oh, absolutely.
Especially at the French library, for instance.
You have to be somebody to sit in the middle, you know.
Yes, I mean, with us, it's probably, where you sit in the Ryan Reading Room, very fundamentally where you sit in the North Library, which is our, our Brooks Room.
And you have to be very careful that you don't sit in some of the seats.
And you have the TV cameras, I think, conspicuously placed, which is important.
People should be aware that they're there.
We had a very, we had a couple of very
unpleasant cases, but which were brought to court.
We insisted they were brought to court.
In fact, in both cases, the people you had stolen from the collections got prison sentences.
And we then put out a display in the rare books room of the damage that had been done.
We put it on display in cases just to remind people because
But it's important that at Cornell, which is a brand new facility, they have the cameras right where you can see them, and then they also have the monitors, so you can actually see what they're looking at in the reading room.
It's important as a deterrent, because it is very difficult still to detect.
And what is that design of...?
I think this guy has a Turkish wine rack.
Not bad.
Hold a lot of bottles, wouldn't it?
But throughout the building, there's plenty of little features.
There's the gruel on the front of the region missions office as well.
And just little features throughout the building.
That one is just more interesting, though.
There's quite a lot of Japanese and things that you saw in the galleries, and you can see that bit more interesting.
He's found himself very pleased with the way he's moved from that floor.
I love that it's very plain.
It's white, it's oak.
Down below it's black and it's white.
Outside it's the brick.
Just very nice, consistent.
The question I was going to ask is what Dr. Simmons said yesterday with David
You said that you add one and a half miles of books a year, and David said, I think it's more than that.
It might be two, two and a half miles of books per year.
What are you equipped to handle here?
When were you run out of space?
Have you projected that?
Well, we have projected it, and what we're already doing is trying to identify what we would call low-use material and recognize that that'll have to move off-site to Boston Sparks, to our Yorkshire, our store of space, because
we haven't got the size of building that we'd originally wanted, that the funding was reduced, and therefore we haven't got the room for expansion, we'd hoped.
But what we'll aim to do is to use Boston Spire as the prime site, so we won't get into the situation we were in, that we're in now, in fact, where we're trying to draw from 14 or 15 different sites around London.
There's 17, actually, I think.
Well, there's 17 sites that feed into one, leading into something like 14 different
So what is the capacity here then for printed books and other materials?
The total number.
Approximately.
How many linear meters?
Is it 375 million?
275 miles.
Yeah.
So just under 300 miles of linear meters.
Whatever.
Some other books.
We have a set of statistics which we could happily send you.
Okay.
I may query you on this.
Helen is wonderful, by the way, so she seems she's answered every query that I've had.
Oh, good, good.
In the science reading room, I was out at the water with my friends, because they've been on holiday, and they can canoed 18 kilometres.
I said, oh, that's Hyde Park Corner to Heathrow.
And I said, how do you know that I've followed 18 kilometres of open access shelving in the science reading room, and it's Hyde Park Corner to Heathrow?
You have to know these comparative statistics.
Yeah, because the total length distance is almost from London to Edinburgh.
Is that right?
We'll go out into the book supply area.